Finding a way to get everybody five people at the same time to have a whole evening together, it can be a challenge.
I wondered whether I would be able to make our family worship interesting and beneficial.
I was not very confident.
A challenge for me is my own attitude toward family worship.
I would hang out with my friends from the congregation.
Children like it when you are interested in them.
Spend time with them.
But you don't always have the time and energy needed.
I had to provide financially for the family.
I was always tired and worn out.
So it was very hard to have family worship regularly.
Kenzie of course is special needs.
And she has heard challenges and there's times when it just doesn't work.
Sometimes my dad would make us attend family worship when they actually want to go to bed.
It is quite annoying.
That's an honest reply.
We have three different age groups.
We have a teenager, we have a preteen, and we have a son who is very active, hyper.
My husband not being a worshiper of Jehovah.
Might have different plans for the family.
When family worship arrangement was introduced,
it became part of our service in Jehovah.
We never miss a congregation meeting.
So why should we miss the family worship?
Whether I'm tired or not, the consistency of having family worship is very important.
It really requires discipline because sometimes there's things that we want to do.
And we just know well, family studies is what's most important, so we have to give that up.
My friends and the brothers in the congregation often call me to exercise or play sports.
Since family worship day doesn't change each week,
it becomes easier to turn them down.
I've said to the girls, let's try to push each other.
Let's try to encourage each other because it's not easy.
I feel it has to start with me making that time and effort to live work on time
in order to be able to honor our family worship.
I became confident that this can really be successful.
I think the most important is the love we have with Jehovah
that keeps us going. I think that's our motivation.
We are determined to teach her as much as we possibly can
and that she'll possibly understand so that the truth will mean everything to her too.
We'll keep being.
We're a family and things pop up.
Something can come up unexpectedly.
So when we need to cover it or the anger.
We make it relaxing.
The children look forward to getting cake or fruit or something else
so that they doesn't get strict and reach it.
We have to know when to be flexible.
When you have children, we feel that you have to make small short sessions
so that they can concentrate on the subject being discussed.
I'm trying to teach them how to make small short sessions.
I think at older we had to change their methods.
At times we invite brothers and their congregation.
We might get the kids to organize some questions so they can interview the brother or sister
that's coming over, especially if they're new in the congregation.
So sometimes family worship might be about issues that our family is facing.
Sometimes it might be about things in the ministry that we want to try and accomplish.
Sometimes it might be about games.
So we've stretched out all over the floor and done all sorts of wonderful things for family worship
because it keeps people engaged.
It's all about asking the family what they like to talk about.
If a family is involved, it is a family worship.
Rather than dad or myself setting out the agenda for family worship,
well then it'll be a dad's family worship not the whole family.
But if we get the feedback from the whole family, from everyone,
everyone gets to put in ideas, then we just plan that accordingly.
The reality of what we need now for relevance is we need to make sure that they're grounded
in their faith and belief.
How they stood at every family study.
We always try to focus on the kids' spiritual goals.
Once the kid at school came and asked me if I could play for the football team.
And I thought it was a good idea, so I went to dad and asked him.
And then he said, why don't we try something called role reversals?
I would play the dad, he would play the son.
In my case, the biggest pressure I have to face is dating in school.
And family worship helps me a lot.
Instead of allowing my problems and negative emotions to faster within me,
I shared this feeling with my family during family worship.
Mom was very understanding.
And she made an effort to come up with themes during family worship to address those issues.
We decided to make a scroll of the book of Isaiah.
It really helps me to realize that Jehovah's organization makes it easier for us to find the scriptures
that we're looking for and not to make it so complicated like in Jesus' days.
But for me, the best thing is to have an opportunity to express myself.
It's good sometimes to break it up a bit so it's not always like dad talking.
When I see how happy all the family members are after our family worship,
I would silently thank Jehovah for helping me fulfill my responsibility as the head of the household.
Our children have learned to be more outgoing and participate more in the meetings.
It was Jehovah's way of telling me, you are not alone.
You have these precious children with you.
It's just that I wasn't paying enough attention to them.
Open with prayer and then right after that, it's just amazing. It's really fun.
So getting there is the hard part but once we get into it, that's when it starts.
That's when it starts having fun.
The family worship has been protecting my family and it has been preparing my family
for the difficulties we face.
We actually are more open with each other now than we ever were before
and we can discuss just about anything and everything which is actually good.
Family worship made me realize how happy I am to have Jehovah as my God.
And that I have many reasons to be happy.
It feels like I can just let go of what was making me sad,
what was making me a bit angry and I can just feel like it's fine
because I know everything will be okay and Jehovah's blessed our evening.
As for me, I learned about the truth through family worship.
I think it encourages me to keep being witness and not to the side of the truth.
It also helps me understand what the meaning is about so I can pay attention
and it helps me get a comment.
During his prayers, we are able to say that that relationship with Jehovah is really close
and this encourages me to also enjoy a close relationship with Jehovah.
So family worship has taught me to preach boldly about the truth even at school.
I was able to cut down association with worldly friends thanks to family worship.
Now can you imagine if daddy said,
you know what, on Mondays we're not going to do our family worship anymore.
How would you feel about that?
Sad.
Why would you feel sad about that?
Because I want to do it.
Tell me why you want to do it.
So I can color the picture and find the missing pictures and read the Bible.
Right.
What do you think you think Jehovah is happy when you do things like that?
Family worship is just so important.
The right sacrifices.
The choice.